--- 
layout: post
title: Installing RMagick on Ubuntu without pulling your hair out
---
@apt-get@ is great for 99% of installation scenarios, but sometimes it just doesn't cut it for installing development headers.  Take a look at the output from running @sudo gem install rmagick@ after installing ImageMagick from @apt-get@:

{% highlight bash %}
ERROR:  Error installing rmagick:
	ERROR: Failed to build gem native extension.

/usr/bin/ruby1.8 extconf.rb install rmagick
checking for Ruby version >= 1.8.5... yes
checking for cc... yes
checking for Magick-config... no
Can't install RMagick 2.10.0. Can't find Magick-config in /usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/X11R6/bin

*** extconf.rb failed ***
Could not create Makefile due to some reason, probably lack of
necessary libraries and/or headers.  Check the mkmf.log file for more
details.  You may need configuration options.

Provided configuration options:
	--with-opt-dir
	--without-opt-dir
	--with-opt-include
	--without-opt-include=${opt-dir}/include
	--with-opt-lib
	--without-opt-lib=${opt-dir}/lib
	--with-make-prog
	--without-make-prog
	--srcdir=.
	--curdir
	--ruby=/usr/bin/ruby1.8


Gem files will remain installed in /usr/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/rmagick-2.10.0 for inspection.
Results logged to /usr/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/rmagick-2.10.0/ext/RMagick/gem_make.out
{% endhighlight %}

As it turns out, we can simplify our lives by complicating it and actually _compiling the thing from source_:

{% highlight bash %}
$ wget ftp://ftp.fifi.org/pub/ImageMagick/ImageMagick-6.5.4-2.tar.gz 
$ tar xvzf ImageMagick-6.5.4-2.tar.gz 
$ cd ImageMagick-6.5.4-2
$ ./configure
$ make
$ sudo make install
{% endhighlight %}

Finally, RMagick will find the headers!

{% highlight bash %}
$ sudo gem install rmagick
Building native extensions.  This could take a while...
Successfully installed rmagick-2.10.0
1 gem installed
Installing ri documentation for rmagick-2.10.0...
{% endhighlight %}

